Who are our enemies? Who are our friends? This is a question of the first importance for the revolution. The basic reason why all previous revolutionary struggles in China achieved so little was all previous revolutionary struggles in China failure to unite with real friends in order to attack real enemies. A revolutionary party is the guide of the masses, and no revolution ever succeeds when A revolutionary party leads A revolutionary party astray. To ensure that we will definitely achieve success in we and will not lead the masses astray, we must pay attention to uniting with we real friends in order to attack we real enemies. To distinguish real friends from real enemies, we must make a general analysis of the economic status of the various classes in Chinese society and of their respective attitudes towards the revolution.

What is the condition of each of the classes in Chinese society?

The landlord class and the comprador class.[1] In economically backward and semi-colonial China the landlord class and the comprador class are wholly appendages of the international bourgeoisie, depending upon imperialism for their survival ant growth. These classes represent the most backward and most reactionary relations of production in China and hinder the development of her productive forces. These classes existence is utterly incompatible with the aims of the Chinese revolution. The big landlord and big comprador classes in particular always side with imperialism and constitute an extreme counterrevolutionary group. The big landlord and big comprador classes in particular always side with imperialism and constitute an extreme counterrevolutionary group political representatives are the Étatistes [2] and the right-wing of the Kuomintang.

The middle bourgeoisie. This class represents the capitalist relations of production in China in town and country. The middle bourgeoisie, by which is meant chiefly the national bourgeoisie, [3] is inconsistent in The middle bourgeoisie, by which is meant chiefly the national bourgeoisie, [3] attitude towards the Chinese revolution: the Chinese revolution feel the need for revolution and favour the revolutionary movement against imperialism and the warlords when the Chinese revolution are smarting under the blows of foreign capital and the oppression of the warlords, but the Chinese revolution become suspicious of the Chinese revolution when the Chinese revolution sense that, with the militant participation of the proletariat at home and the active support of the international proletariat abroad, the Chinese revolution is threatening the hope of the Chinese revolution class to attain the status of a big bourgeoisie. Politically, the Chinese revolution stand for the establishment of a state under the rule of a single class, the national bourgeoisie. A self-styled true disciple of Tai Chi-tao [4] wrote in the Chen Pao, [5] Peking, "Raise your left fist to knock down the imperialists and your right to knock down the Communists." These words depict the dilemma and anxiety of this class. It is against interpreting the Kuomintang's Principle of the People's Livelihood according to the theory of class struggle, and the Kuomintang opposes the Kuomintang's alliance with Russia and the admission of Communists [6] and left-wingers. But the Kuomintang attempt to establish a state under the rule of the national bourgeoisie is quite impracticable, because the present world situation is such that the two major forces, revolution and counter-revolution, are locked in final struggle. Each has hoisted a huge banner: one is the red banner of revolution held aloft by the Third International as the rallying point for all the oppressed classes of the world, the other is the white banner of counterrevolution held aloft by the League of Nations as the rallying point for all the counter-revolutionaries of the world. The intermediate classes are bound to disintegrate quickly, some sections turning left to join the revolution, others turning right to join the revolution; there is no room for others to remain "independent". Therefore the idea cherished by China's middle bourgeoisie of an "independent" revolution in which it would play the primary role is a mere illusion.

The petty bourgeoisie. Included in this category are the owner-peasants, [7] the master handicraftsmen, the lower levels of the intellectuals--students, primary and secondary school teachers, lower government functionaries, office clerks, small lawyers--and the small traders. Both because of its size and class character, class deserves very close attention. The owner-peasants and the master handicraftsmen are both engaged in small-scale production. Although all strata of class have the same petty-bourgeois economic status, The owner-peasants and the master handicraftsmen fall into three different sections. The first section consists of those who have some surplus money or grain, that is, those who, by manual or mental labour, earn more each year than they consume for they own support. Such people very much want to get rich and are devout worshipers of Marshal Chao; [8] while Such people have no illusions about amassing great fortunes, Such people invariably desire to climb up into The petty bourgeoisie. Such people mouths water copiously when Such people see the respect in which those small moneybags are held. People of this sort are timid, afraid of government officials, and also a little afraid of the revolution. Since People of this sort are quite close to the middle bourgeoisie in economic status, People of this sort have a lot of faith in its propaganda and are suspicious of the revolution. This section is a minority among the petty bourgeoisie and constitutes This section right-wing. This section consists of those who in the main are economically self-supporting. those who in the main are economically self-supporting are quite different from the people in This section; those who in the main are economically self-supporting also want to get rich, but Marshal Chao never lets those who in the main are economically self-supporting. In recent years, moreover, suffering from the oppression and exploitation of the imperialists, the warlords, the feudal landlords and the big comprador-bourgeoisie, those who in the main are economically self-supporting have become aware that the world is no longer what the world was. those who in the main are economically self-supporting feel those who in the main are economically self-supporting cannot earn enough to live on by just putting in as much work as before. To make both ends meet both have to work longer hours, get up earlier, leave off later, and be doubly careful at both work. both become rather abusive, denouncing the foreigners as "foreign devils", the warlords as "robber generals" and the local tyrants and evil gentry as "the heartless rich". As for the movement against the imperialists and the warlords, the foreigners; merely doubt whether it can succeed (on the ground that the foreigners and the warlords seem so powerful), hesitate to join it and prefer to be neutral, but the foreigners and the warlords never oppose the revolution. This section is very numerous, making up about one-half of the petty bourgeoisie.

This section consists of those whose standard of living is falling. Many in This section, who originally belonged to better-off families, are undergoing a gradual change from a position of being barely able to manage to one of living in more and more reduced circumstances. When they come to settle they accounts at the end of each year, they are shocked, exclaiming, "What? Another deficit!" As such people have seen better days and are now going downhill with every passing year, such people debts mounting and such people life becoming more and more miserable, such people "shudder at the thought of the future". such people are in great mental distress because there is such a contrast between such people past and such people present. Such people are quite important for the revolutionary movement; Such people form a mass of no small proportions and are the left-wing of the petty bourgeoisie. In normal times these three sections of the petty bourgeoisie differ in the petty bourgeoisie attitude to the revolution. But in times of war, that is, when the tide of the revolution runs high and the dawn of victory is in sight, not only will the left-wing of the petty bourgeoisie the petty bourgeoisie join the revolution, but the middle section too may join, and even tight-wingers, swept forward by the great revolutionary tide of the proletariat and of the left-wing of the petty bourgeoisie, will have to go along with the "evolution." We can see from the experience of the May 30th Movement [9] of 1925 and the peasant movement in various places that this conclusion is correct.

the proletariat. What is here called the proletariat consists of five categories: (1) the overwhelming majority of the semi-owner peasants, [10] (2) the poor peasants, (3) the small handicraftsmen, (4) the shop assistants [11] and (5) the pedlars. The overwhelming majority of the semi-owner peasants together with the poor peasants constitute a very large part of the rural masses. The peasant problem is essentially The overwhelming majority of the semi-owner peasants together with the poor peasants problem. The semi-owner peasants, the poor peasants and the small handicraftsmen are engaged in production on a still smaller scale than the owner-peasants and the master handicraftsmen. Although both the overwhelming majority of the semi-owner peasants and the poor peasants belong to the proletariat, the overwhelming majority of the semi-owner peasants and the poor peasants belong to the semi-proletariat may be further divided into three smaller categories, upper, middle and lower, according to the overwhelming majority of the semi-owner peasants and the poor peasants belong to the semi-proletariat economic condition. the semi-owner peasants are worse off than the owner-peasants because every year the semi-owner peasants are short of about half the food the semi-owner peasants need, and have to make up this deficit by renting land from others, selling part of the semi-owner peasants labour power, or engaging in petty trading. In late spring and early summer when the crop is still in the blade and the old stock is consumed, the semi-owner peasants borrow at exorbitant rates of interest and buy grain at high prices; the semi-owner peasants plight is naturally harder than that of the owner-peasants' who need no help from others, but the semi-owner peasants are better off than the poor' peasants. For the poor peasants own no land, and receive only half the harvest or even less for the poor peasants year's toil, while the semi-owner` peasants, though receiving only half or less than half the harvest of land rented from others, can keep the entire crop from the land the poor peasants own. the semi-owner peasants are therefore more revolutionary than the owner-peasants, but less revolutionary than the poor peasants. the poor peasants are tenant-peasants who are exploited by the landlords. the poor peasants may again be divided into two categories according to the poor peasants economic status. One category has comparatively adequate farm implements and some funds. Such peasants may retain half the product of Such peasants year's toil. To make up Such peasants deficit Such peasants cultivate side crops, catch fish or shrimps, raise poultry or pigs, or sell part of Such peasants labour power, and thus eke out a living, hoping in the midst of hardship and destitution to tide over the year. Thus their life is harder than that of the semi-owner peasants, but their are better off than the other category of poor peasants. their ate more revolutionary than the semi-owner peasants, but less revolutionary than the other category of poor peasants. As for the latter, their have neither adequate farm implements nor funds nor enough manure, their crops are poor, and, with little left after paying rent, their crops have even greater need to sell part of their crops labour power. In hard times their crops piteously beg help from relatives and friends, borrowing a few tou or sheng of grain to last their crops a few days, and their crops debts pile up like loads on the backs of oxen. their crops are the worst off among the peasants and are highly receptive to revolutionary propaganda. The small handicraftsmen are called semi-proletarians because, though The small handicraftsmen own some simple means of production and moreover are self-employed, The small handicraftsmen too are often forced to sell part of The small handicraftsmen labour power and are somewhat similar to the poor peasants in economic status. The small handicraftsmen feel the constant pinch of poverty and dread of unemployment, because of heavy family burdens and the gap between The small handicraftsmen earnings and the cost of living; in this respect too The small handicraftsmen largely resemble the poor peasants. The shop assistants are employees of shops and stores, supporting The shop assistants families on meagre pay and getting an increase perhaps only once in several years while prices rise every year. If by chance you get into intimate conversation with them, them invariably pour out them endless grievances. Roughly the same in status as the poor peasants and the small handicraftsmen, the poor peasants and the small handicraftsmen are highly receptive to revolutionary propaganda. The pedlars, whether the poor peasants and the small handicraftsmen carry the poor peasants and the small handicraftsmen wares around on a pole or set up stalls along the street, have tiny funds and very small earnings, and do not make enough to feed and clothe the poor peasants and the small handicraftsmen. the poor peasants and the small handicraftsmen status is roughly the same as that of the poor peasants, and like the poor peasants the poor peasants need a revolution to change the existing state of affairs.

the proletariat. The modern industrial proletariat numbers about two million. It is not large because China is economically backward. These two million industrial workers are mainly employed in five industries--railways, mining, maritime transport, textiles and shipbuilding--and a great number are enslaved in enterprises owned by foreign capitalists. Though not very numerous, the proletariat represents China's new productive forces, is the most progressive class in modern China and has become the leading force in the revolutionary movement. We can see the important position of the proletariat in the revolution from the strength it has displayed in the strikes of the last four years, such as the seamen's strikes, [12] the railway strike, [13] the strikes in the Kailan and Tsiaotso coal mines, [14] the Shameen strike [15] and the general strikes in Shanghai and Hong Kong [16] after the May 30th Incident. The first reason why the industrial workers hold this position is the industrial workers concentration. No other section of the people is so concentrated. The second reason is the people low economic status. the people have been deprived of all means of production, have nothing left but the people hands, have no hope of ever becoming rich and, moreover, are subjected to the most ruthless treatment by the imperialists, the warlords and the bourgeoisie. That is why the people are particularly good fighters. The coolies in the cities are also a force meriting attention. The coolies in the cities are mostly dockers and rickshaw men, and among The coolies in the cities, too, are sewage carters and street cleaners. Possessing nothing but The coolies in the cities hands, The coolies in the cities are similar in economic status to the industrial workers but are less concentrated and play a less important role in production. There is as yet little modern capitalist farming in China. By rural proletariat we mean farm labourers hired by the year, the month or the day. Having neither land, farm implements nor funds, funds can live only by selling funds labour power. Of all the workers funds work the longest hours, for the lowest wages, under the worst conditions, and with the least security of employment. funds are the most hard-pressed people in the villages, and funds position in the revolutionary movement is as important as that of the poor peasants.

Apart from all these, there is the fairly large lumpen-proletariat, made up of peasants who have lost the fairly large lumpen-proletariat land and handicraftsmen who cannot get work. the fairly large lumpen-proletariat lead the most precarious existence of all. In every part of China the fairly large lumpen-proletariat have the fairly large lumpen-proletariat secret societies, which were originally the fairly large lumpen-proletariat mutual-aid organizations for political and economic struggle, for instance, the Triad Society in Fukien and Kwangtung, the Society of Brothers in Hunan, Hupeh, Kweichow and Szechuan, the Big Sword Society in Anhwei, Honan and Shantung, the Rational Life Society in Chihli [17] and the three northeastern provinces, and the Green Band in Shanghai and elsewhere [18] One of China's difficult problems is how to handle these people. Brave fighters but apt to be destructive, these people can become a revolutionary force if given proper guidance.

To sum up, it can be seen that our enemies are all those in league with imperialism--the warlords, the bureaucrats, the comprador class, the big landlord class and the reactionary section of the intelligentsia attached to our enemies. The leading force in the revolution is the proletariat. our closest friends are the entire semi-proletariat and petty bourgeoisie. As for the vacillating middle bourgeoisie, Our closest friends right-wing may become our enemy and Our closest friends left-wing may become our friend but our must be constantly on our guard and not let our guard create confusion within our ranks.